[Music]
Should we dock Flutter Patreon?
We have a Patreon.
You the listener should join it.
Great. What do our listeners get if they join?
That sounds great. Tell me more.
Um, Discord access.
First off, we set up a really nice Discord for everyone.
Here's a question.
Does everyone at this point know what Discord is?
I think so.
Yeah.
Is it ubiquitous?
I think so.
Okay.
I didn't know if this was a chance for us to discuss what Discord is.
I think it's bigger than Facebook at this point.
Yeah. For all the stuff we don't explain,
we could probably, no one's probably safe.
Okay.
I mean, I don't even know how I would describe Discord at this point.
It's like IRC with voice chat.
Yeah.
And video.
It's video fair.
shitty video.
Fuck I'm dating myself, aren't I?
Oh, that was, I thought you were being hilarious.
That is incredibly old.
Yeah, that is wildly not-
Active do.
Pro to call.
Wow.
But yeah, set up a nice Discord.
People have been asking for Patreon.
So we won't live with it.
So that we can keep doing this forever.
Well, that's a bold promise.
I don't know.
I mean, at the very least we're going to die, right?
We'll pass the torch to the next Sis X Dumpster crew.
They'll live on forever.
Now, our apprentices and proteges,
are they, are we going to find them in our Discord?
Yeah.
Part of-
According to the prophecy.
They'll be revealed.
Right.
Yeah.
Through IRC.
In a series of trials.
Yes.
Involving telnet.
It's like a hacker challenge.
Fuck, we're nerfed.
Yeah, Patreon.
It's live.
This will be the first episode, I guess,
that we'll talk about it.
Expect to hear us talk about it a lot.
Every episode moving forward.
Yeah.
We're going to do cool shit.
Cool shit.
We have some goals for the first 25 people.
Goals.
We're going to give out some swag.
Do we need to explain what swag is?
It's like an estimate on how long a project will take.
Mental health.
I'm sorry.
Cut that too.
I'm damnate.
Good.
That was a downer.
Ugh.
It's a real downer.
But, okay, people know it's swag is.
I hope so.
Yeah.
It's shit we all get.
It's stuff.
We got some nice like beer koozies.
What else do we have?
Stickers.
We got stickers.
I'll throw in some, some of my used panties.
Whoa.
There's one person from Finland that I think I know stickers too still, but um,
fucking international shipping.
I'm just like, I don't want to fill out the form.
Yeah.
I don't want to like be it in the post office.
Plus it's still gonna cause like 20 fucking bucks.
That's yeah.
I don't think it's too bad if you can put just like double the amount of stamps
and get shit to a lot of places.
Yeah, especially for this, which I would do just like,
like two stickers, nothing else.
You know.
But sorry person who's info, I forget.
Stickers are coming your way.
We kind of just let our patreons, potential patreons, know that,
we're not going to send them shit.
Well, that's on me.
That's my failing.
My name's Dave.
Yeah.
Swag at the 25 mark.
Wait, 25 users mark.
25 not patreon mark.
Right.
So how much does it cost to join our patreon?
Five dollars a month.
Is that US dollar?
US dollars.
The cup of one small coffee at Starbucks.
Yeah.
Can get you such great content.
From us three nerds.
It's true.
Endless content.
It's not endless.
We're not Q&A discussions.
It's a little eventually.
Discord.
It's true.
Uh, we're going to upload the music that we do every episode
as MP3's to discord.
You mentioned the sample pack idea.
Oh, yeah.
Sample packs.
We could set that as a 50 subscriber mark.
Oh, okay.
You're something if you're in that.
I'm down.
If we reach 50, I'll throw in two used pairs of panties.
Damn.
Couple loose cigarettes.
Some patch cable.
Well worn.
A faulty stackable.
A random dope for a panel.
I think I cut my last,
I think I threw away my last OG stack cable a couple of weeks ago.
All right.
RIP shitty cable.
I still have a few.
I still do.
Oh, yeah.
They're functional.
Every few of this second time that work.
Yeah.
First one.
They cut in and out, but yeah.
Not the yellow ones.
All my yellow ones are dead.
But whatever reason, that was the one that like within weeks,
so mine broke.
Well, I hope you held onto them so that we can give them away.
Nah, I threw them.
This picture of the paper.
All the time.
I love this.
Our little podcasting station here is getting invaded by spiders.
Which is pretty cool.
Oh, but yeah.
So everyone joined.
I just assume they to find it, they just go to patreon.com and then search for us.
Slash Cisex dumpster.
Oh yeah.
I'll put a link on the website too.
Nice.
I feel like we should give something special.
Undisclosed to the first subscriber.
Oh, like I'll put a blink tag on the link.
Yeah.
Oh, hack into your browser.
He used this browser extension to modify this first link to put a blink tag.
Give him a link.
Actually take your credit card info.
You create a special role in this course for the first person.
Okay.
Get the ball rolling.
I don't think we sold this.
I mean, the use panties is a pretty good.
That's a full core press.
I mean, that's a good deal for $5 a month.
Right.
I mean, I usually sell those for at least 80 bucks easy.
And you only get one pair.
Like it's not like you give those out every month.
Right.
To all of our subscribers.
Like don't.
No, I buy one pair of underwear and wear it for a month.
And then I give it to a purchaser.
That's fair.
And I'm giving it away for free this time.
That's savings you can't pass on.
Yeah, it's a big savings.
You're leaving money on the table.
And they're sad.
Can people pick color?
Or just just you get it.
It's all black.
Okay.
It's all I wear.
That's a color.
Yeah.
That's not true.
I know.
Okay.
I did want to get to a thing there.
It's the absence of color.
Or the presence of all colors,
depending on which view you want to take.
Deep.
So you can get on our discord
and you can yell at us about things like.
Yeah.
What is black?
Is it a color?
Is it all colors?
Is it no colors?
I don't think there's a prize for that,
but we'd like to know.
We also have a dope for memes channel.
It's true.
I mean, bring your best deeter dope for memes.
Steaming hot dope for memes.
Yeah.
I think we sold it.
I mean, that would be super merch.
I'm going to do.
I don't know.
It'll evolve.
Hopefully.
Hopefully we'll get to a weird merch
and give away weird things because that's fun.
People always ask why we haven't done a Patreon.
This is why.
This right.
And they're like, don't know what to offer.
Um, shut out to people on Modwiggler though,
for giving us some good feedback.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, this is something we've kind of like talked about for a while
and then dragged our feet on and then that latest episode,
"Bread."
There's a lot of discussion and I think that's what pushed us over the edge
and actually made us want to do it so.
Yeah, the moderators didn't move.
Are thread this time?
Yeah.
The Eurorack, you know, sub form that we've been posting in for years now.
Like they did with the previous episode for some reason.
There's a lot of users were encouraging us to do something that we've been
dragging our feet on.
Yeah.
So we appreciate the final push.
Dip in our toes in the water, see what the deal is here.
Definitely be nice.
Help us, you know, afford modules to review in these trying times.
Price increases.
Because we don't get this shit for free.
No.
We pay for it like everyone else.
We don't get no C6 dumpster discount.
We're not influencers.
Yet.
Would gladly take some though.
Take some sponsors.
I mean, who are we looking for?
Like car dealerships, local banks, like what sponsorship money are we looking for?
What are we courting?
Let's take some free pizza.
Oh, that'd be nice.
Like antacids.
Dissponsored by Tums.
Stop, stop giving shit the cuckoo.
Cuckoo.
Cuckoo-cuckoo.
Cuckoo-choo.
Now send it our way.
We'll put it through its paces.
We will.
Yeah.
And you won't have to see our faces.
Well, at least not drawing those reviews.
We won't do the little weird mirror.
Yeah.
That could be a perk.
Nobody will do it, but send us a thing or review the thing.
I'm into that.
But the problem though is I don't think any of us are capable of flying
either to ourselves or to our listeners.
So it's going to be brutally honest.
It's fine.
Well, I'm just letting people know.
I think people know if they expect that from us at this point.
Yeah, but if we're not going to chill for anything.
Right, but that's the problem with your product and you want to get some hype going.
We're not going to help with the hype.
That said, we will give an honest review.
Like a certain someone tried to do recently with us.
Needles say they backed out of the deal.
They went with the Underhand Soft Pitch podcast.
It was like, tell me more about everything you want to talk about.
Should we mention what that was?
I don't know.
We've got like times passed.
I'm like, I'm going to say no because fuck giving them even a mention.
Okay.
Fair.
Fair enough.
Fair fair.
It's not even worth it.
But yeah, it's worth mentioning to the listeners at least that someone tried to get
us to show for them.
When we offered to give it a fair review, they pulled out.
Yeah, anytime like an agency like that contacts you,
it's probably going to be a bad time.
You know, like that's a sign.
And then they fucking put like even my personal email,
I think on their fucking mailing lists.
It was like, I started getting spam and we started getting spam for their
fucking agency.
It's like, come on.
It was interesting though to see that aspect of the scene, I guess.
The business.
It is a business.
Yeah.
So I was wondering, like, you know, when you see these people like
shilling for products and like, how does that come about?
You know, like we just witnessed how it harassed by a marketing agency for that person to try and
hype up a product.
It was all in the format you would expect.
It was very sort of like very professional.
As I legally is and it's it's, this is the business side of how that manufactured hype
comes into existence and money is changes hands and like.
I guess it says something for us that we've made it to the point where
some of these agencies feel like we could be a prospect.
It was cool in that way.
I just wish they like kind of would have applied too.
Because yeah, I write like fucking emails for a job.
I'll write dozens of emails every week and like I replied like fairly, but like,
you know, in our like no nonsense way and I would have like just a fucking response.
Just like a no.
I don't think it's going to work.
Can I be like, sweet.
I don't give a fuck.
It's a shame that you would you, I don't know, this is me being naive,
but like just saying we're going to do something fair, if your product is good,
it should stand up the rigors of us putting it through its paces.
I think it was pretty clear that they weren't looking for people to review their right,
right, they were targeting people and then cherry picking who seemed like they were willing to
play ball with them the best and just hyping it.
And I guess like reviewing it or putting through its pace.
And I guess there's no reason to take a chance on us when there's someone out there that
will just simply do what they say.
So the hint is that it's an extremely expensive box that really doesn't make any sound
to be used at shows.
That's probably too much.
No, it's enough.
Fuckin' kiss.
But if you missed or guessed that, the first person to guess it, I'll send a can koozy and
some stickers to like the word koozy.
Yeah.
Fuckin' hate that word.
Join our Discord, join the discussion.
Yeah.
Give us your guesses.
Now only one guess.
Don't just spam it with like every possible like, is it one of these?
Be reasonable.
Yeah, come on.
That's the other thing we were going to offer is like polls or discussion.
Oh yeah.
Oh, polls.
So like, what do you say?
People want us to...
Spell what you're saying.
P-O-L-L.
P-A-H-L-E-S.
It sounds like you're saying "pools P-O-L-S."
It's the same word.
P-O-O-L-S and P-O-L-L-S.
I mean, it means different things and it's a different spelling, but it's the same pronunciation, correct?
No, what's P-O-L-E-S.
Polls.
What is that?
There's polls and polls.
You're saying the same thing.
Yeah.
Am I saying the same thing?
No, you're not.
You're saying different thing.
Poll and pool.
Yes, yes.
Thank you, Nick.
That was it.
What?
You guys are saying the same thing?
No, Nick.
They also do it.
Like, they're different words and they're pronounced differently.
No, you're shittin' with me.
Nick, do it again.
Polls.
Totally different.
Yeah.
Well, I'm trying to say P-O-L-L.
We're not just gonna give our listeners a swimming pool.
No.
Okay.
I'm sorry, I didn't mean to distract it with...
I'm questioning everything.
Oh, do you do it with a...
Is it a cooler?
D-A-W-N, say that.
Don.
D-O-N.
Yeah, you do it too.
Same thing.
They're not.
They're not the same, I think.
No, they're not.
They're supposed to be pronounced differently.
Really?
It's a Pittsburgh, Eastern, Pennsylvania thing that we all say.
I do it too.
Don and Don.
Yeah.
That...
That one.
Now, this one fucks me up.
Don and Don is fucking me up right now.
Dantan.
Yeah, this is supposed to be different words.
I'm sitting here.
I'm gonna start smoking.
I still think poll and polls the same pronunciation.
I'm not picking up...
That one now.
How to say it differently.
Don and Don fucks with me.
Don and Don fucks with me too.
That was something I learned recently, but...
This is the first time I've heard...
Polls?
Oh, ooh.
Yeah.
Polls and polls.
Polls.
Polls?
I'm confused.
Okay, so you're talking about...
Discord.
On Discord.
Polls.
B-O-L-L-S.
That aren't full of...
pudding or slime.
But like...
Or chlorine.
Yeah, but like the polls where people vote on
topics of discussion...
I didn't mean to call you out and make you self-conscious about this break.
I'm not talking about it.
My mind is slightly blown.
I think we all learned a lot today.
Come on, jump in the pool.
And get involved in the pool.
So what were our polls be about?
You know, sexy stuff.
Voting on topics of discussion for future episodes.
Things like that.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Yeah, that too.
Are we going to set them with polls?
Or are we going to let people sort of make their own?
No, we set the polling...
We set them in polls.
Not where the admins were there.
Yeah.
Cool than Iron Fist.
Can't let things go fucking topsy-turvy now.
Right.
Chaos.
Lower the fly-shade.
Flys mering a bumblebee.
Right, right.
Cat sleeping with dogs.
You know, gotta be order.
Wow.
This is a Microsoft poll generator.
XP.
Wow.
We just dove into fascism like so quickly.
Just like day zero fascism.
Join our discord where we roll with an Iron Fist.
We're Americans.
I mean, geez.
I'm sure I am.
Don't hop in there thinking you're going to tell us what to do.
[laughs]
So Techno and synthesizers.
The Sherman is distracting.
It is a beautiful Sherman compact sitting on the table.
It is.
It's pretty.
It's not mine.
It's nicks.
Letting Greg borrow it.
I'm going to steal it.
I'm going to steal it for a little.
But that tip though, holy shit.
That's a good tip.
Worked up.
Yeah, trigger that fucking thing.
What is it?
Like blast it with the 16th note on the trigger in.
And it keeps the envelope high all the time.
And it's kind of nice.
You're not as dependent on the input level
and how that kind of works through it.
It really opens it up differently, totally.
I forget who which Techno producer like made that video.
But it was a good video.
So it's a lot of fast short gates or going to be one long gate.
Just fast short.
Like a 16th pattern or whatever.
And you can have fun with it too.
But it's nice just to keep it up there.
Not have to depend on the envelope follower.
Gotcha.
A little shaky at times.
Yeah.
Yeah, it can.
Sometimes it can fool you.
If your input level changes, you'd be like,
what's happening a little?
Sound very, very different.
And this kind of changes that a little.
Turns into an offset more so.
So Greg, this isn't your first time with the shrimps.
No, it's been a while though.
Last time I used one for recording
was with the Mecha album,
which was like what?
Four or five years ago at this point?
My fourth.
Wow.
Really?
Which one?
Oh.
You had the tall one, right?
I had the desktop version.
Desktop two, yeah.
Mark two.
Okay.
And it was pretty much always
and just connected to my LXR.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I spent a lot of time with the LXR on the Sherman.
Yeah, LXR Sherman's like,
P's and carrots.
Yeah, and an 808 sounds fucking amazing through it.
This time around while borrowing yours,
I plan on running the poly and play through it.
Oh, cool.
I'll see what kind of shenanigans I can do.
It was six years ago.
Six years ago.
The Mecha Simulacrum,
or Mecha Simulacra was released by underground record sensation.
I think of records.
I got records.
Six years ago.
2016.
Cool.
It's been a long time.
Yeah, it's been a while.
So yeah, I'm excited to play with Sherman again.
And it's nice.
How compact the compact is.
It is.
It's very compact.
Well, this is the second.
This is the Rev 2, right?
It's pretty much Rev 3.
Okay.
Because the first one is a little bit like chunkier than that.
Yeah, this is the OG chunky.
And they did the Rackmount one.
And then the Mark 2 of the OG chunky.
Those are all through whole.
This one is the first surface mount,
I think, which is why I got it to be so compact.
It's the second one I got because the first one
seemed like it kind of fucked up because of the inputs,
which is why I hadn't used much of the input
outside of the signal input for a while.
Because I triggered an ADSR once and it kind of like
seemed to totally freak out.
Yeah.
And they sent me another new one.
And that's been fine since.
I guess we should specify we're talking about the Sherman filter bank.
We've just been calling it the Sherman as we tend to do.
But that Sherman does make other things.
But does anyone care?
But yeah.
Like, I'm not trying to be a jerk.
But literally, the filter rank is what I associate with Sherman.
Yeah.
I would love to find one of those.
Was it the Rodeck?
I think it was all--
Rodeck restylers.
Oh, yeah.
I would love to get my hands on one,
but they're just like,
Unuptaneum swears on the wear.
They're pretty rare.
So great.
What is your plans for this?
Like, we make some fucking noise.
I'm getting noisy again, Dave.
Oh.
For the last two years, going on three,
I've kind of been experimenting with like, granular.
Yeah.
And melodic elements and things like that.
But something kind of clicked on my brain a couple months ago,
or I just realized like,
I don't want to make pretty sounds right now.
I don't even want to make necessarily
granular or like,
atmospheric sounds right now.
I want to get back to my roots and start
right fucking shit up again.
Just sweaty undies.
Yeah, just swedgy.
Just swedgy noise.
Just full on gabber kicks.
Yeah.
Layers upon layers of white noise.
Because that's what's cathartic for me, Dave.
Yeah, that's fair.
Got a lot of demons inside, you know?
And the only way to unleash them is gabber kicks.
You are not going to hear any argument from me.
That is the sound.
The first sound I hear in the morning,
the last sound I hear at night,
the gabber kicking my head with noise.
Fudysky mastering.
V-A-R-E-S-C-H-I mastering.
Jot. COOOOMM.
I'm done with this project and it sounds bad.
What do I do?
How about V-A-S-C-Mastering.
That's cool.
Philippe will work with you,
to get you where you want your sound to fucking go.
V-A-R-E-S-C-H-I mastering.com.
Philippe will help you with your sonic.
Is you...
It's kind of weird for me though,
because this album that I'm working on was initially going to be very melodic.
And I have an hour's worth of material that I recorded that
was getting close to being an album.
I don't know, I just kind of don't like any of it.
It's just like my brain shifted and instead of trying to force myself
to continue with my original plan, I'm just going to go with my gut and see where my creativity takes me.
Which is back to making very ugly sounds.
That's perfectly reasonable. I'm excited to hear it.
I've been restructuring my entire modular, again, to accommodate this plan.
Yeah.
I've been spending the last week or so just feedback patching everything once again.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, I've had an interesting productive week in that way.
It's like, I feel like my mental health honestly has not been that great.
And that's been having me making more music.
And I've been kind of getting back, same to my acid wormhole, very technooid techno
shit that isn't as melodic.
And it's more just like, I'm really loving the Neapro Metamorph.
I've been really loving that and like tempted to get a second one.
But I've just been using a switch to get eight steps out of it instead.
It'd be cool to have like eight steps of the three lanes because like the glide is super fucking sweet.
But so you dove right into that.
Can you take a step back?
What is this and explain how you're using it?
It's the Neapro Metamorph sequencer from the Ukraine,
which is not necessarily new, but is relatively new to me.
And I really like it.
Just it kind of stepped in for the Surge Seagate XL that I sold,
which was eight steps by two rows.
A little less fun, a lot less fun actually than the Neapro, which I think is a lot better.
But it's four step, which is limited.
But for the stuff I'm working on, it's kind of perfect because it's like
sometimes it's just about shifting parameters slowly over time too.
And like getting stuff to breathe a bit.
Breathing is a big thing right now.
That's where I'm focused.
It's always for me too.
Like just having shit like...
And like, I mean music is the space between the notes and like having that sort of like letting
things open up and yeah.
Very special glide circuit on that thing though.
Yeah.
Very interesting to me what it does.
I don't have a Neapro, but I've definitely been focusing on breathing lately.
Within the sound.
One thing when I had my over-stair modular channel
that I really like to do is just extreme compression settings.
And running filthy things through it that were at very, very low levels.
But having the over-stair at very, very high gain staging and compression to like
kind of suck some of the strange ambience of like the circuits in my modular,
bring the little background noises to the forefront.
Right.
You know what I mean?
And like having those sounds breathe.
And that's kind of what I'm getting back to lately.
I don't have the modular channel anymore, but I've been utilizing like
compression and just like envelope followers and things like that to
make the noise breathe.
You know what I mean?
To make the textures kind of have space and not just brick walled noise right now.
Yeah.
Right.
I'm experimenting a lot with like layering textures of breathing noise basically.
Kind of ventured away from granular and trying to focus more on like breathing textures.
So it's interesting that you use that work because it's like exactly what I've been focusing on too.
That's cool.
Yeah.
Not a lot of the maestro from acid rain.
I've been loving that thing.
That's been helping a lot with that too because it's so easy just to get beat synced.
Modulations and it's really easy to like think of something and make it happen pretty quickly.
That's been key.
And the mod Medusa, which I just got, which I'll talk about sometime.
But you can talk about it now if you want to talk about it now.
Yeah.
I've only had it like two or three days ago.
It showed up the mod Medusa from ShackMat, which is the quote unquote Euclidean modulator or whatever they call it.
But it's like an LFO.
And it's actually at first a little confusing like some of the ShackMat things can be.
And then when I looked into it, it's kind of one of their simpler ones in a way because it's just like
four outputs for one modulator.
And you get like, what are the controls on length, which is the length of the sequence of Euclidean
shit that happens.
And you can do non Euclidean stuff too.
There are four modes for that.
But anyway, the top knob is length.
You get one through eight steps and you can CV that and change it.
The cool thing like overall about this module is you don't need to even really fucking know what's going on.
It's like really, you can kind of intuit what you're going to hear by like twisting all the knobs.
It's really fun to play.
It was one of the most fun things I've used in a while, especially modulator.
It replaced the Mark III Kermit for me, which was cool, but the end to the cyst of what that module is.
And it was like, it's not menu diving at all.
It's very surface.
I really want a second one.
So when you say you're twisting these knobs, are you changing waveform shapes?
What are you controlling?
There are four really, I think there's length of the sequence.
There's density.
So that's Euclidean density number of events, basically within that length of sequence,
which determines how things happen.
And then you have like two shaped knobs in the bottom left.
I forget one is what the fuck is it?
It's something shape and then.
Symmetry.
So it's kind of like the four milliseconds peg in a way, which I fucking love.
And I've had since I built one like 10 years ago now, since they came out.
And it's kind of like that, but it does like crazier sequences.
I really love playing it.
You can do like crazy noise shit with it.
Like I just had some of those samples you heard, which was just like going into the piston Honda.
No VCA, just direct with like a reverb at the end of it.
So I could like tolerate listening to it for a minute.
And that was fun.
You can do like crazy break core shit.
It's all going to take a clock.
There's a tap input.
There's also this P sync input, which is cool because that will sync the peaks of the waveform
instead of the troughs to the clock.
So you can kind of like shift that.
There's also these length buttons on the right where you can shift the sequence forward and
back in time by a step, which is cool.
I got a question about the peaks.
Yeah.
Does it have zero crossing as it moves those or are you getting like clicks?
Oh, yeah.
Never click.
Yeah.
It's always like zero crossing, basically.
Oh, nice.
I haven't heard it do a click at all.
That was amazing.
Nice.
Totally warranted.
Yeah.
It's smooth as fuck even at high speeds.
What the fuck else was going to say?
Oh, it's got two inputs.
I haven't even used these yet, but there's like a gate input or VCA input,
which is just like controlling a VCA of one of the outputs.
So I think you get like level control and you're going to sign that.
Which would be very nice because for modulators, they typically don't have that on board.
Like if you wanted to squash an LFO or any kind of what's considered like a modulation source,
typically got to run it through an attenuator or a ten new version.
Totally.
That's a pretty clever idea.
Yeah.
Then there's another gate input where you can do like ratcheting and some other things
with that sequence too, which is cool.
And then there's another mode you can get into where you've got like these four outputs,
right?
They're kind of like all, we'll talk about the four buttons on the right,
which are main compute random and phase.
So that's how the four outputs behave.
Main is just like playing the sequence back and it kind of like has some rules for how it
represents each of the outputs.
I forget it's in the manual.
It's a little detailed to remember anyway.
Compute does logical operations.
Like it does, I think, and an or maybe it ores to the outputs together.
So it's like, okay, here's the logical operation for that.
Random has some randomization rules that you can pick from,
just kind of like randomize it and phase is just phase difference of the main waveform.
So you get those four to select from and then you can go to a mode where you can select each
output and change all those parameters for each one too.
I haven't even used that yet.
I've just been treating them all as like four bound together things.
You can kind of decouple them now and just have individual changes to those things.
So it's super capable.
It's like really like some of those things where you can get it out of the box, plug it in and
it's just fun immediately too.
And you can just start to hear like, oh, that's what it does.
You know, it's like kind of like triangle stuff.
You can change the symmetry and the shape, not triangle, but you get a few waveforms.
Yeah, I wanted to ask about that.
Like what kind of shapes are we talking about here?
They're pretty basic, really.
It's like, I think square saw and then reverse saw.
So it's kind of like four milliseconds peg saw.
You don't get much fancy like wave table or any like ability to modify that,
but you could CV control over everything.
So you can see the symmetry in the shape.
Yeah, you can shape those sort of symbol forms into something a little bit more unusual,
which I think if it did much more than that, it might be a little weird.
It's kind of nice to have it because it's such a basic thing anyway.
You can really kind of intuit what you're going to get, which I like.
So it's like super fun.
It sounds great when you CV the fuck out of it.
Like it's like classic, I think it's definitely,
if I would have to pick like module of the year for me at this point.
And you're very strong modules, I'll say, with things like the consolation and stuff like that.
But it's like, just, I don't know, something about it clicked with me as a modulator immediately,
and I could use another.
And that made you kick the Kermit to the curb.
Yes.
Yeah, that was quite a sacrifice.
Same size.
In my head, I really wanted to say, kick the Kermit to the curb.
Because it was too divey.
Oh, for me, it's just too divey.
It was really cool, but I hated using it.
Yeah, I got from Toman.
Toman fucking kicks ass.
Got it to me in like 36 hours or some shit like that.
Nice.
It's insane to me how fast.
Yeah.
Toman and Schneider, Schneider-laden can get things here.
In signals faster than perfect circuit can.
Yeah.
I thought to that list.
I've gotten things from both blocks.
Take an ass later.
Yeah.
And stuff that I've gotten from like, Kansas, have taken like a week.
It's really mind-blowing.
I don't understand it.
There's been a few things that I haven't been able to find in shops and stateside.
And so I've, yeah, I've been ordering overseas and legit.
Like every time it's gotten to me faster than usually the domestic resellers that I go through.
It's routinely more expensive though.
Barely.
Oh, right.
Like I think the last thing I got, I can't remember for Schneider's with Toman,
but like it was like 10 bucks to ship.
That's not bad.
It was just like the same as UPS or USPS priority at this point.
Right.
This last time was cheaper than getting it stateside because the Euro.
Because it's insane too.
It's wild.
Yeah.
So it's weird.
Yeah, but fucking two thumbs up love the module.
And that too bipolar.
Yeah.
That's kind of nice.
Yeah, it's got a smidge for it too.
Nice.
I thought I was overseeing that.
So you can actually switch it like rectify it.
Let me double check that.
I'm pretty sure you're there's like a uni switch as that one it is.
Yeah.
Is it a polar button?
Oh, nice.
Okay.
Kind of like rectify it.
You can see everything.
Killer.
Fucking love it.
Yeah.
Shack-man rules.
I love the rock too.
I was like really like, um, they're good at sequencing.
Shit like that.
It's just really fun.
I don't know.
What's the rock?
I figure which one that is.
Oh, the, um, bishops.
What the fuck is it called?
Yeah, the rock.
It's like the bishops gamut or something like that.
That's a different bishops, Messalini.
That's another one.
They disconnect.
Continue it.
They're all chess moves.
It turns out.
I like chess things.
Yeah.
The only one I have in them is the the dole dagger.
And I still like it.
Dole dagger is awesome.
I built one of those.
Great filter.
Sounds amazing.
Great stereo filter.
Yeah, both.
Yeah.
I use it mono and stereo.
Shaq Matt kicks ass.
All I have is the Harlecunz context.
It's yeah, it's the heart of like a live set.
I used it, um, driving, uh, that set that I had.
No, I had.
It worked.
Fucking, it was great.
So yeah, Shaq Matt.
Shaq Matt.
Yeah.
Pools.
So yeah, and though I've been, uh,
been trying to like finish a record.
Um, so I've been recording a bunch of stuff.
Sort of putting a lot of stuff together.
Now I'm in the, uh, like, I got a bunch of recordings.
I'm trying to put them all together.
So it's just time consuming and tedious, which is, you know,
it has to be done.
You know, otherwise it just won't ever finish.
Um, but that's where I'm at right now,
which is a bummer because, uh, this record is like,
started making it after the last record,
which is also when I got the LXR.
So it's also when I started playing, um, my Necrons Army
in War number 40K, a lot more than my Black Templers Army.
Um, so robots,
killer robots that destroy humanity and hate all humans.
That's always been on my mind.
Like, since I was a kid, but it's like, oh, like really forefront.
Uh, these last couple of years.
And so between having the LXR and a bunch of like a lot of digital stuff,
really was making a lot of digital sounding stuff.
Yeah.
So a lot of this recording, a lot of this record is going to be
just a lot of like, um, digital sounds, digital controls.
So there's a lot of like bleeping and blooping.
Um, which is rad.
I'm glad I, you know, I'm, I'm on sort of like the last steps
and finishing it, but at the same time,
I've also gotten into all of the pieces I need for the, uh,
chaos, Leibniz binary system, which would be perfect.
Zach, Zach, Zach, Zach, Zach, Zach.
Zach, Zach, Zach, Zach.
Leave established.
That's what we call them here today.
Well, I'm sorry.
What is it again?
Zach, Zach.
So I got the Zach, uh, Leibniz binary system.
I got the first three modules of that.
I'm not going to start over because I have too much to record it
and I'm basically in the final stretch.
Yeah.
But there's a part of me that's like, fuck, I wish I would have had this
when I started.
Yeah.
It's not new.
That's the crazy thing about this.
I've only, I only got, um, turned onto it when I got, um,
I got the MOSCA Mark II and I got the expansion for it,
the O-Stank Kino.
And that, and there's a little note in it that says this hooks up to the
Zach's Leibniz binary system.
I'm like, the fuck is this under me?
But it's called a binary system, which obviously, oh, what is this?
Um, been around since like 2017.
It's not new.
No.
I just did, I just was not aware of it.
I'm glad someone finally has it.
I've always been intrigued by that system.
So I've had it for a couple of weeks.
I've got the Dresno, the Jana, Gina, J-J-E-N-A.
Jana?
I was calling it Jenna.
Yeah.
But it's probably, but Jana would be J-N-N-A.
I think it's Jana.
Jana?
Maybe.
Jana, whatever it is.
Um, and then the Air Fort.
So the, like these are, seem to be the sort of three core modules.
Yeah.
That supply this, that run the system.
It's fucking amazing.
I'll get into it more in a future episode
because I've really only got like dive into it.
And I really don't want to do like a show and tell with the two of you and show what it does and everything.
Opportunity for Patreon Perf.
It could be a Patreon Perf.
Technical overview video.
It could be a video of me in my, uh, this face.
Subscribe listeners and watch Dave deep dive into the...
Leibnets.
I'm assuming it generates streams of gates based on the information.
It's all, yes.
Yes, but it's, um, basically it's an 8-bit representation at a 2 millihertz,
uh, processor of an income, either an incoming signal or other data on this Leibnets.
It's a shared system that you can sort of link through them all and either pass on the original data
or you get the, the, whatever the modified data was.
Um, or it takes its own input, which can either be CV rate or audio rate.
Um, and so CV rate stuff, you just generate bonkers.
It's 8 bits, which translates into 8, uh, gate outputs.
What's really interesting and the, uh, as I was having a discussion with Russ from Evertan.
And he made the, the, the sort of poignant observation.
Oh, that sounds like, um, the Turing machine.
And I sort of chewed on it for a second.
I'm like, yes, but it's almost like the opposite.
Because if you send it a signal, you're getting those 8 bits.
Like, that's deterministic.
It's repeating where Turing machine is basically chaos.
You're, you're getting this sort of the, the, the bit shifted registers.
And then eventually you go, oh, I like this.
And then you, then you lock that into place.
Right.
This, as it takes a signal, it's doing the same thing over and over again.
You're getting its transposition of this data, incoming data into this binary representation,
which then translates into this 8, 8 gate output.
If you send it the same signal as you're getting that, that's, that's over and over again.
As you change that, or as you modified or as you make any sort of changes to that incoming
signal, it updates it accordingly.
So if you like something, you can actually keep it until you make a change.
Oh, okay.
Cool.
And again, that applies to CV.
So, you know, sending a saw wave at a pretty slow rate.
You can then create really interesting rhythmic grumb sequences just from that.
Or you can send audio rate stuff and use it as a bit crusher or a bit reducer or a wave tape,
wave shaper with the, the Gina or Jenna.
Like as you modify that and it takes those eight steps and has a different look up on a,
a wave table and modifies the incoming data according to that wave table.
It then basically you're using your shape.
You can then use the shape and incoming signal at audio rate.
Oh, weird.
Again, that's why I kind of want to do a show and tell because as I'm describing this,
I can tell there's a thousand missing pieces.
I'm not telling you that makes this probably a lot more easy to understand or showing you
might make it a lot easier.
Overall though, like sort of like the summary statement of this is I fucking love it.
I think it's amazing.
It's like, I think it's brilliant.
Like I really wish I'd been using it for the last three years as part of making this, this record.
Well, it's not too late to backtrack a little, man.
I feel like some of the stuff that I like turned out happiest with that I've created was stuff that
I went back to like that stuff that I totally thought was done.
Yeah.
Sat on it for weeks, months, and then thought to myself like, no, I can do something better with
this part.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Usually nine times out of 10, I'm much happier with the end result when I revisit those types
of things.
So like you want to be done.
Right.
You think you're done.
Yeah.
But maybe just sit on it for a minute, you know, and then see where it takes you with the new
technique.
I'm a little bit more, I had an idea when I started this.
I've actuated it and the final stretch, the idea is can evolve.
That's true.
What I'm thinking is finish this, get this done, and then start over from scratch with
blank canvas with this new technique.
Also while I'm doing, you know, while I'm finishing up this record, dive more into this
- Sure.
- system, really start to get a toolbox of different techniques and how to use it,
then hit the ground running with, you know, basically new record.
I've done both.
Right.
You know, but I -
I'm not unhappy.
I'm not unhappy with what I made.
You're not unhappy, but you have found something you think is nailing the -
Oh, absolutely.
Better.
Yeah.
So it's like, yeah, maybe you'll regret later if you release it.
That's what the real -
Right.
- the record is for.
Yeah.
No, I - I 100% what you're saying though, but this also represents me starting two,
three years ago.
If I drag this out too much longer, that's just not going to be me at all.
And I'm going to get to the point where I just don't like any of it.
Like I just reached with the album that I've been working on for two years now.
Right.
I'm strapping all of it except for maybe one try.
- Trying to finish our pandemic records all of us.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
And what you just described is actually kind of terrifying to me.
I'm okay with turning my back on my own creations.
I have no problems boarding it, but -
Boarding it.
Is that who you're describing it?
Yeah.
It's my creation.
No.
Now, you know, I'm in like -
Like boarding it like an animal at a shelter or boarding it isn't like a house that you like -
A boarding.
Okay.
I thought you said boarding it.
I'm not.
No, no, no.
Like eating me from the inside out, you know, training my life source.
I was like, are you just like giving it to a animal shelter to like -
It's a little demon clawing its way in my gut.
I'm just getting it out there, making a new baby.
New techno, baby.
I can't argue with new techno, baby.
But like that, yeah, everything about that makes perfect sense.
But in any case, yeah, I am in the future.
I'm going to have a lot to say about the system.
I think it's a really novel, interesting thing that -
Yeah.
That's been around for five fucking years.
I'm only now getting turned on to it.
So I'm very into it.
I'm glad you've managed to finish your pandemic album.
Like I -
It's like a second.
This is the second one.
True.
I actually did another one entirely in the pandemic and it was released.
I mean, I released one, but it was done before the pandemic.
It just came out during the pandemic, you know, released on back.
Go records.
I've heard good things about them.
But like the one that I've been working on for the last few years,
like I was concerned that that would happen.
Because I was like, I'm feeling a very specific kind of way right now,
right in like the year 2020-2021.
And I was trying hard to capture it and finish it in time.
And it's gone.
It slipped for me.
You know, that feeling, that distinct state of mind that I was in
has already shifted a bit.
And now I feel like to pursue that album any further,
I'll just be forcing it.
Right.
Yeah.
What I really want to do.
So yeah, you know, working on those tracks helped me get through the pandemic.
That's for sure.
But yeah, like I don't think those tracks will ever see the light of day.
It's helped me get to where I am now, though.
And I'm ready to shift gears.
Right.
Yeah.
I've got it down to like four of them from all the stuff I recorded.
And like two of them remain.
Two of them are going to be finished.
Yeah.
And then two of them are just like, you're so close, but you're so fucking far.
Right.
Working on the stuff, it is so fucking time consuming.
It really eats up a lot of time finishing a track.
Yeah, it does.
Like it's, I'm going to try to come up with the best word, describe it.
Making it is fun.
This is the first time where it feels like not a chore isn't the right word,
but it is like the thing of like, oh, I could literally do anything else and be more fun than this.
But like, this is the thing that like pushes this over and actually
finishes it, but it's just programming to tedious.
Yeah, it's very.
The creation and the exploring and the recording.
That's the fun part.
Yeah.
And all of that stuff is sitting a foot away.
So the temptation just.
Right.
Well, let me just turn this on and have fun again.
Yeah.
Like that was fun.
It has been very strong.
So the shift to VCV rack for me has made that process way simpler.
So explain that because that's a very interesting point.
Yeah.
Because right now, like I don't.
So I'm not in the box at all.
Yeah.
Like I have everything is external and right now Ableton is just recording.
And then months later, arranging.
Right.
Yeah.
Same.
So that disconnect may actually be something that like that what your setup may resolve in a more
interesting way.
Well, it allows me to be able to save a portion of my patch for one thing if I'm doing anything
within VCV.
But I'm mainly just talking about being able to multitrack like using the expert sleepers
ES9 now and having like multiple expansions.
You know, before I was just like to tracking everything.
Like even though I had a sound card that had multiple inputs, I had to
bounce everything down through like my mixer or through like the overstair and things like that.
So I was basically summing everything down.
Like I was doing most of my mixing in the modular and then bouncing out like two stereo tracks or
like a maximum of like four stereo tracks.
Right.
And then like I'd have those tracks and then I'd have to go back and create the other layers on top of that.
You know, it was a big pain in the ass, but I can essentially record everything
just using the ES9 and the mix master module and VCV and then doing a polyphonic record out
where like I don't even have to create individual recording tracks.
It does it all for you.
Oh, that's cool.
It's one polyphonic virtual cable that goes from the mixer polyouts group one through eight and then
eight through 16.
I hit record on those things and just blow every channel on those mixers as a separate audio track.
That's cool.
That's awesome.
All lined up.
Yeah.
Just dropped into my DAW super fast.
Like it's because yeah, the part that always killed me was the whole like recording the modular
and then trying to sync that all up and sure, you know, all that shit.
It's this kind of speeds that up for me a lot.
And I finally got a focus right multi-track.
That's what I had previously.
And it's made things but I think it makes things a lot easier than what I had,
which was I did everything on a hardware mixer that stereo out then when that's what I would record.
So I had to do basically one takes.
Yeah.
And like, oh, that didn't sound good or the mix didn't sound right.
So I had to adjust things.
And then if I wanted to add something later, none of that was synced.
I'd have to go in and try to find a way to line them up and all that.
Even the idea of taking what you just described and jamming for like an hour.
Yeah.
And just being like, okay, first 45 minutes was terrible.
I finally hit the stride.
All of that's right there for you to just pick and pluck out.
It's fast.
Yeah.
It's it's helpful to me.
You know what I mean?
I know the way that I was recording things you could have been done better,
but it's just like I got into a bad habit and that's what I stuck with.
It wasn't the most efficient process.
Swishing to the VCV, I had like a new opportunity to develop a new system.
A whole new set of bad habits.
Yeah.
Right.
Exactly.
And also like just doing everything from the DAWs that I've used previously,
mainly FL Studio, like there was always issues with drift and things like that.
Like even when I was using a click track instead of a midi clock and all that shit,
there were still certain issues with the multi-tracks, things being a little bit
drifty shit like that. But now like within VCV rack, like nothing starts until I start VCV.
And it's a rock solid, you know, clock that goes from VCV to the ES9 and then clock's
Pamela's workout.
Right.
And also my Pamela's workout is setting sending the midi out to my other external gear,
like poly and play and things like that.
Everything is just like locked tight and it all just gets recorded in sync and it's super smooth.
Like real happy with the process.
Your setup sounds amazing, man.
Yeah.
Congratulations on.
Thank you.
Yeah.
It's been a lot of trial and error.
I'm finally happy with the new process.
Love and VCV.
Except for when it goes Ape Shit because I'm using two different sound aid interfaces.
Now it's a good.
Go Ape Shit in a fun way.
No.
Record it.
It goes Ape Shit in a way where like sometimes it just drops.
It's not like a sound plus 3.16 going Ape Shit and you go,
this sounds really great.
Let me record this.
It requires me to control,
ult, delete it, kill the task.
Oh geez.
Sometimes.
How often does that happen?
Uh, I don't know.
It depends on I guess how big the patch is.
But I've had it happen even with like a bare bones patch.
Like it's just something with having,
I think it's an ES9 problem to be honest.
I could get interfaces are always a little dicey.
Yeah.
Like I don't want to blame ES9.
I think I just did that.
But like yeah, I think expert speakers could.
There was an implied blame.
Could maybe fine tune the firmware a little bit
because sometimes it just gets flaky for no reason.
But when it works, it works great.
Yeah, mine.
I couldn't get rid of the USB,
and the headphone amp on it is garbage.
Never tried the headphone amp.
It's garbage.
So I can't speak to that.
I mean, yeah, it wasn't that I could have gone without using the headphone amp ever.
I think I tried it one time when I first got it
and realized he has kind of noisy and didn't touch it back.
But I don't like using headphone amps in modular anyways.
Like all my WMD pro outputs, they had headphone amps too.
And they could get very gainful.
And that was kind of the problem.
Like I get pretty loud within the modular
and like I have the tendency to blast my fucking ears out.
So like if I do headphones, it's like after everything is already balanced.
Kind of like it's the way you can patch too, if you're trying to like monitor there.
Yeah.
But it's just like I want to overdrive this shit
and then like calm it down somewhere upstream or downstream rather.
Hard left turn.
Yeah.
You mentioned WMD.
We should talk about that.
We're also talking about hybrid systems, which we said 2022 would be the year of the hybrid.
You did.
It's really starting to look that way.
It is.
As the system collapses in a sense for making hardware things,
yeah.
WMD being one of the first, well a few of the first casualties sadly.
This is probably the first major.
First major, yeah.
Definitely the biggest so far.
Also probably the biggest impact.
Yes.
Because there's, I mean first off we should talk about what we're talking about.
Yeah.
So WMD announced at least at the time of this recording a couple of days ago that they are
ceasing all operations.
They're closing up shop.
They're stopping manufacturing.
They have no plans to release any future modules at this time.
And they're liquidating their current stock at 30% off.
Which is a hell of a deal.
I actually ordered two muscle compressors to take advantage of the sale.
I wanted to get a couple of trash masters again, but they were sold out.
Do they have any giger pedals?
I didn't look at the pedals, but they do have the module and stock.
Currently.
Because I was thinking about getting one of those.
Yeah.
I think that's...
We'll circle back to the giger counter though.
The black ones look so cool too.
Yeah.
I really do.
Well, but impact wise, I also follow erogenous tones.
Because they make structure and the guys that are involved in erogenous tones are
just amazing human beings and very forthcoming in social media.
Yeah.
Super cool.
Absolutely nothing bad to say about them.
But they address the fact that WMD is what they use to manufacture all the erogenous tones.
Right.
Modules.
So it's also having an impact on their ability to put modules and stuff out.
Yeah.
Let's take one step back.
They're not just closing because they're bored or sick of mod.
They're closing due to what they said is the component shortages and cost increases
and all the things like that.
So yeah, it's not like they're just randomly shutting their doors.
Like this is all...
Let's go point.
Yeah.
Fall out from the current situation that we've been talking about for a few months now.
In January, we were speculating what kind of impacts we would see throughout 2022
due to these cost increases and labor issues and component shortages.
Supply chains and supply chains.
But I mean, the fact that it's obviously...
We're finally seeing it.
We're finally talking about it.
Yeah.
That really says something about the...
I'm maybe silver lining this.
Dedication and try to make it happen and try to work through it.
Sure.
Yeah.
This is...
They lasted a pretty long time and everyone's lasted.
Like who's sticking with it.
This can't be fucking easy.
It says a lot.
Yeah.
Because WMD is pretty major.
They're one of the first ones on the scene.
They're major and like you said, they also do the manufacturing and like parts
ordering and all that shit for other companies, other big companies.
Arogenous tones, like you said.
I think also like Milleco, SSF.
I think there was a couple of others off the top of my head.
They're one of the few full system companies.
Yeah.
Companies that make like a full system.
Right.
Yeah.
And I mean, and they didn't even start out.
Like this isn't just impacting modules either.
Like they...
At the heart, they're a pedal company.
Right.
You know, that's how they started.
And not strictly a boutique.
We're making five of these pedals and...
Right.
We're going to make money because we're charging a lot for them.
Not the shit on boutique pedals, but like they make...
They're that weird...
Accessible.
Exactly.
That middle area between boutique and...
Boss.
Right.
Like they are making fantastic high quality pedals and they're making a volume of them.
For 17 years now, yeah.
Yeah.
That's amazing.
I remember like seeing a Geiger counter pedal for the first time being like,
"I need one of those someday."
Yeah.
And then like shortly after that,
they announced that they were making the module of it and I grabbed it.
You know, that was one of the...
Yeah.
I think it was like the third or fourth module that I bought.
I was going to say you had that way back.
Way back.
Man.
Like I had some of the...
Like live wire stuff.
Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
And I had my Geiger counter and I had some Plan B stuff.
And that was like...
Oh, Jesus.
The start.
Yeah.
That Geiger counter pedal was the thing that like hit me the most though.
Like that was the module that got me into feedback patching.
And like learning how to self patch a module.
Right.
You know, like that opened a lot of doors to me.
And I will also say, um, going to NomCon all those years,
their booth was always a must.
You stole a buy.
Doesn't matter who was working, it was always super friendly,
super informed, and just like genuinely excited about what they were
working on.
Yeah.
Excited to show you stuff.
Good live sets.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Alex always killed it.
Alex always crushed it.
Yeah.
And yeah, I always look forward to seeing him perform at the end of...
We're just talking to him.
We're just trying.
Yeah.
Like seriously accessible human.
So was William.
Like, yeah.
Yeah.
Is that?
I had a few conversations.
Like when I had...
When I first got that Geiger counter,
like I had some ideas.
Like as I kept feedback patching in,
I was like,
I really enjoyed tweaking the tone knob.
You know what I mean?
And I remember emailing, I was like,
hey, if you're ever going to do like a future revision of this,
it would be great to be able to CV the tone knob.
You know, and I didn't expect to hear from everything.
I just wanted to toss out a suggestion because...
I don't know.
You're a nerd.
I'm a nerd.
And I was passionate about it.
Yeah.
And like,
you know, it was a small community then,
and like,
didn't seem that absurd to message your manufacture.
But yeah, it started an email chain between us,
like just bullshitting.
And he dropped like the science on me,
like explaining why he can't do that.
And like, why the tone knob is the way it is,
and like all this stuff.
And like, you know,
we just started bullshitting,
nerd talking.
And I was like, you're a cool dude.
Yeah.
He actually responded to you,
like a human being with respect and dignity.
Yeah.
You explained it.
Like, we...
That's fucking amazing.
Yeah.
We had a conversation.
It was pretty cool.
I mean, so...
I guess this is more of a question than what everyone heard.
Is it done, done?
Are they dead, dead?
Are they doing something else?
Is it morphing into something new?
They're not clear.
Okay.
They said in their announcement that they hope
this is a see you later,
and not a goodbye.
Right.
So...
That was the last thing I heard from them,
and I was wondering if anyone heard...
other things about what that meant.
Yeah.
It's pretty much like,
you know, they can't manufacture things.
It's too expensive to like,
just have people sitting there.
They can't execute their new ideas.
Right.
But you know, it's not like...
I feel like the only reason that
people only say it's like a year or two
until that clears up,
is just to like,
not fuck up the stock market,
because it's like...
It's not getting much better.
It's not like a lot of necessary
and insight.
Depending on what you want.
Well, it's dependent on...
If people want to believe
if Joe Biden's plan to bring
the manufacturing,
the subject of Ohio is actually going to...
Right.
Come to fruition by 2025.
That's the thing,
and Chiffab takes forever.
You know?
Chiffabs takes for so long to set up.
It also needs absolutely clean environment.
It needs a process.
Yeah.
It is...
You're not going to stand that up...
Like...
You're not going to stand that up overnight.
You're not going to have that up
and running in a month.
Like, even if they do meet their goal,
that's years down the line.
Like, it's...
I think people being optimistic
and banking on things,
being much better by two years from now.
I think it's probably...
overly optimistic.
You know, things are going to be rocky,
even the follow-up.
Even if it is,
it's two years of companies
dropping left and right.
Like, other companies are going to
start following soon.
Another one today, actually.
Or Thogonal Devices.
I didn't see that one.
You said...
It's pretty much...
I'm going to take contract work,
stopping all firmware development.
Yeah.
We'll try to make these again in 2023,
but I can't run this company
unless I can make 301s.
Paul Schreiber.
Yeah.
Paul Schreiber too.
He said he's going to be fulfilling orders
until March 2023,
which is only like, what, six months away.
Yeah.
And then he's closing up shop,
and he said, like,
he knows of at least six other
big companies in the modular world
that will probably be doing the same
before that timeframe comes.
So kind of ominous to hear this
from such big names in the scene.
Yeah.
It is, yeah.
This is where like the small people,
I think, can probably survive,
because if you're just like,
knocking out like 25 to 50 modules,
it's less risk.
You're more like,
"I probably have a day job already."
When I went and picked up that module,
that filter of crows at Pittsburgh.
They're not doing what they did.
Oh, yeah.
Three years ago, four years ago.
They're not the US dope for anymore.
Like that small run,
limited edition stuff,
that's their plan.
Like that's what they're doing.
Again, that's why I feel a little bit bad
about thinking they were doing like,
artificial scarcity.
That's not what they're doing.
They're going literally,
this is what we just made.
Just actual, we can make.
Exactly.
No, that's a really good point
and a good distinction.
And the fact that they're able to adjust
their business to accommodate that,
good for them.
Yeah.
As opposed to,
they're going to probably stick around a little bit longer.
Hopefully they are able to weather this all the way through
until we can start seeing chips again.
It's smart.
I remember even Russ saying this a couple years back,
because people are going to go like,
low or tech.
They're going to find the shit they're going to build
and it's going to go lower cost.
And that's like what
Pittsburgh and Create Audio seem to be doing.
It's like filling this gap of like,
very low price stuff that still seems pretty damn good.
And I can't be mad at all.
There's some of it that I want actually.
Just because it's like,
be nice to have this like,
everything but an oscillator voice module with a filter.
Like for however much it is,
it's like, that's kind of fucking tempting.
The problem with that though,
is that we're going to see,
you know, scaling back of the manufacturers,
but demand is that an all time fucking high.
That's how inflation works.
I mean, when you have low supply,
high demand and more people than ever building rigs right now.
Exactly.
I mean, the second hand market is like,
blowing up.
Ooh, great.
Rice gouging.
There are a hundred people who want one of two that are on reverb.
Right.
It is still price gouging.
I'm not, and I'm not a capitalist,
but like, I can definitely see why people are like,
I'm going to start high.
Yeah.
Modular is going to become
a boutique elitist hobby again.
Yes.
It is.
And it's also going to be a really interesting indicator of inflation.
I think you can look at that and go like,
wow, people are,
this isn't just people asking for outrageous shit.
People are actually selling for this outrageous braces.
The problem with that though,
is that that is good for collectors.
It's terrible for people that actually use this shit.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, totally.
And I think it brings it back to the hybrid systems too,
in a way.
It's going to be like,
Exactly.
What can you make use of in the computer?
Maybe you don't get like a virtual module.
You can't get a chip off now,
but you do get an analog filter.
Yes.
That's like 150 bucks.
That's pretty like good.
I just, in my head,
I see this going the way as like,
the shoe market.
You know, because like, my cousin,
we've discussed this in the past,
he's all about sneakers.
And sneakers over time,
you see a fuck ton of that,
you know, manufactured,
hype and...
It has its own market.
It really is an individual market.
Right.
And they have raffles,
just to be able to pre-order something.
To give people a chance to buy it,
and then flip it.
And all of that buying and flipping is an buy.
And you can buy spots
to try and get these things.
And like,
Ah, man.
That's what I think it goes best,
when you get people that buy just to immediately flip,
which I think is like,
I can never see.
Like, you go out and you work and you create value.
Going out and banking on capital and creating capital
has...
And this is a perfect example of it,
that it no value whatsoever,
but it's created capital.
It's a game.
Yeah, I mean, it's a whole game.
The whole flipping shoe market,
it's like a whole game.
And we're going to see the same fucking thing in module.
Yeah.
That's what I'm saying,
it's going to benefit collectors.
Absolutely.
I have this module that no one else has,
and it's worth a thousand dollars.
Well, retail, it's only a hundred.
Right.
But because you paid the inflated fucking price
of some price gouger on Reverb,
you can now say that this is worth a thousand dollars.
And that's the other problem is,
you now then have,
well, let me go look at the sold listings.
Yeah.
Well, shit, now this is going for 800,
this is going for a thousand.
It's very hard to go the other way from that.
It's very hard for that to slide back down.
Right.
It's easy for that to ratchet up.
Oh, yeah.
And once the market snowball's...
Exactly.
...and getting that ball back up the hill.
Yeah.
I sold my plinky synth for like 300 bucks.
Now they go for like almost $2,000 sometimes.
Yeah, that's crazy.
Which blows my fucking mind.
The pink faceplate,
Lokelika Teratas that you just got,
is already on Reverb
from other people that grabbed them up from that badge.
Yeah.
They're flipping them for 400 plus dollars.
Yeah, just to make an extra quick hundred bucks.
And that's like...
Ugh.
The whole point of that limited run
from noise engineering was to generate money to charity.
If you...
Unless you were giving your dividend between what you paid.
They're not.
Yeah.
And what you marked that up for,
to that charity.
They're abusing what the monster.
Right.
Fuck you.
Exactly.
You are missing the point.
They're abusing what started out as like a good cause.
Like they were limited for a reason,
because they were meant to generate money for a charity.
You know, people snagged them up,
which I guess on one hand is good.
They did get the money.
Right.
To put to that charity.
But now these guys are trying to profit.
It hasn't even been out for a week.
No, not even.
But that's a shitty rationale that looked like really...
But this is what we're going to see.
Like why spread now?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
I've made a little profit off a module too.
I can't say that I haven't,
but I've never like taken it to the extreme that some people have.
Like I've paid like...
Ideally I just want to like,
if I can pay nothing to have rented a module,
then I'm totally happy.
Yeah.
You know.
And like maybe once or twice,
I've been like,
"Oh, this thing's actually like going for like 600,
all like seven for five or something like that."
Go always try to be the lowest person
and have a reasonable price.
I always go with the lowest
because I don't want like,
once I've decided to sell something,
I wanted to fuck out of my house.
I always try to be the lowest person.
Yeah, I want to get rid of it.
Done with it.
Yeah.
And honestly, it's worked a lot in reverb,
especially with this last batch
and a box of shit that I need to get rid of.
It's flying out of my fucking house
because I'm like,
"What's the lowest one right now?
Five dollars less."
Yeah.
Cool.
That's enough.
Yeah.
I'm stoked because I don't want it anymore.
And honestly, in most cases,
still more than when I paid for it.
Right.
A lot of stuff is going for more than what I paid for it.
That's the real coupon code trick
is to buy everything with a coupon code.
Then you can resell it basically using that coupon code value
and you pay like $20 to rent a module a lot of the time
or you eat like shipping.
Yeah, I think we're going to see a lot of people
getting into modular sales
that have nothing to do with the community.
Like you were talking about my cousin who,
I mean, he is part of the shoe community.
I'll give him that.
Yeah.
Like he collects them,
he wears them,
he's not just playing the reselling game,
but he does to an extent separate
like his fandom stuff and the market stuff
that he gets just to flip.
Yeah.
Basically, he tries to
pay for his shoe addiction by flipping other shoes
that he has no interest in wearing.
You know, so it's like kind of offsets each other.
But yeah, I don't know.
I think with modular, we're just going to be seeing people
just being leeches and...
Oh, absolutely.
Oh, there's 100 modules coming out of this.
I'm going to buy all 100 of them and control the market
and list them one at a time on reverb for an inflated price.
And who's going to stop them?
Exactly.
The problem is...
It's too easy.
We have nothing...
We have no infrastructure in place
in the modular community to protect against this
or prepare for it.
And I think a lot of people are not prepared for it.
Oh, absolutely.
They're just using shopping cart software
or they're using a service.
They're using basically nothing to set up.
I mean, even...
People are going to start writing bots.
Exactly.
And like, you look at like shoes.
There is almost like that.
You know, as one side advances,
the other side has to go a little bit further.
I feel like shoe buying and shoe shopping carts.
I mean, even like what Cyrus was explaining to me,
like they are getting more sophisticated.
Oh, yeah.
So they've evolved to their own.
As the people that are buying them
have gotten more sophisticated.
Maybe I'm wrong,
but I think you're right.
That all of these module sellers
have not had to deal with this.
Correct.
So if someone really did want to just go and buy
all of those pink,
lukellic modules.
Buy them all within a nanosecond.
Like you said, control that market.
Salt for what they want to.
In the shoe scene,
you see resellers that have protections in place
that can track what address these credit cards
tying back to.
You know what I mean?
Things like that.
So that you can hard limit people.
Yeah.
So that they can't fully control the market.
That's what he was explaining is that like the days of just like,
I now own every one of these shoes is over.
And then because they've had to then
as the as these spot buyer seller flippers
have evolved, they've also evolved.
Yeah.
In the modular scene?
No.
People are running little homebrew shops
and online carts that can be taking advantage of easily.
Squarespace shit.
Exactly.
Etsy.
Yeah.
Even Etsy.
They're just not ready.
And it's going to, you're right.
It takes one person to talk this on.
There's going to be some
big wallet whales that are going to step in
and control the market
and make things impossible
for the normal consumer to buy at anywhere near retail value.
And we were talking five years ago about,
you know, there's so many manufacturers out there.
They're all doing the same thing.
There's so much sort of saturation of utility modules.
And we're a year away from
people paying $800 for an ADSR.
Yeah.
It's going to get split.
We're going to have two different modular communities basically.
There's going to be the collector inflated name brand market.
And then there's going to be the little dudes
that manage to get some components and do small brew.
Yeah.
Batches of things that people can afford
and post them up on Etsy and things like that.
Like you were saying,
there's going to be the dudes that do the small stuff.
And...
Or like Russell was saying,
when he was like,
what can I do with this chip that is regularly available?
What does that mean?
Whatever these small brews,
these microbreweries of modules
can obtain whatever components they get.
And they release small batches that are too fancy
or that appealing to collectors.
Right.
It's going to be two separate fucking markets.
I think you're absolutely right.
And it's like...
My noise engineering was kind of smart too,
it's because they invested in that daisy platforms.
Now they can just spin off all different types of modules,
but it's just the same hardware,
as long as they can keep getting that shit.
Yes.
And they're pretty much good,
you know, which is fucking brilliant in a way.
Not Arduino in particular,
but some of the out of fruit stuff,
some of the...
Basically, some of these sort of smaller dedicated embedded systems
we've seen it here and there pop up,
Oregon accumulator using the TNC.
Is there a potential for,
"Hey, listen, we're still found a way to make
these little tiny embedded systems,
these little microprocessors."
I can get 200 of these,
I can actually make a run of a module using these.
Do you think maybe there's going to be a shift towards
using some of those four things like sequencers
or things that lend themselves to digital processing?
I think it could be for some of the stuff
that isn't outright shittier latencies
and really crippled and not easy to make useful stuff for.
It's been DSP,
everybody's been using that thing forever
to make different types of effects,
including happy nerding and tip-top.
But yeah, I don't know,
it'll be interesting to see if somebody...
Was it STM-32s, those chips?
Those are the ones behind the MIDI box,
and they're a step back from some of the ARM processors in ways.
Apparently, maybe even car companies are trying to buy those
so they can make automation in cars with the shittier processor.
So probably to some extent to the extent that the big, big players
like car companies will allow that shit to be bought.
Right, at some point,
there's external forces that are going to make that impossible to do,
but I wonder if there's just that thing of like...
I wasn't interested in that because...
Well, all these other options were available
because chips were...
They flowed like the Mighty Mississippi River.
Like, that wasn't a problem,
but now that it is, it's like, "Oh shit, you're actually making that,
and it's available, and it's readily available.
What can I do with it?"
Yeah, like, you can't get...
It's hard to get Raspberry Pi 4 still,
and I have one because I do like,
Bitcoin shit with it, and like some self-hosting stuff,
but you can get now these like,
mini Raspberry Pi's that are like super small.
I was looking at today that are still like,
apparently like, good enough latencies maybe.
So like, I hope things like that that are interesting,
that are like, single purpose,
or like, cool come up that are like,
"Ah, you can still do like,
one millisecond in and out, audio, IO,
but it's just not as like, robust as this other fucking thing."
So, I guess another way to phrase this is,
are we on the cusp of people being creative,
not so much about what the module does,
but what resources are available to them
to actually manufacture something?
That'd be cool.
I think it's be interesting.
I think so, yeah.
Might force some creative designs again.
Yes, yeah.
I think a lot of things have been lacking in that department.
Absolutely.
Over the last year or so.
Kind of plateaued anyway.
Yes, exactly.
You know.
And we were talking about this like,
a couple of years ago.
Yeah, I think it's just cycled again.
When things were plateauing, yeah.
I mean, we just looked at the atmosphere,
like, just how like,
knob con changed over time.
Yeah.
Taking a look around like,
"Okay, things are changing.
Things are plateauing.
The market is shifting."
Yeah.
And I think with this announcement of WMD closing up shop,
like, I think that is the beginning of the end, so to speak.
That is going to have huge impacts.
Clearly more manufacturers are going to follow suit
or have to adapt.
And the market is clearly going to feel the impact of all of this.
Absolutely.
I guess the other thing I'm a little worried about is,
I've just assumed that like,
you know, I've got a bunch of modules
from a bunch of different manufacturers.
All of them are, you know,
one to maybe three people shops, right?
I've always assumed like,
"Oh, if I have a problem with this,
there's someone I can talk to about fixing it."
How far away is it where,
"Oh, shit, this isn't documented.
There's no manual for this.
This isn't like a corg.
I can't go, you know,
we're friends with Chase,
who does synth repair in Brooklyn."
Again, if you are in Brooklyn,
you need your synthesizer repaired.
Chase at what's it called?
Specs, I think they're closing the shop because Willie's moving,
but Chase Smith still will do repairs and such for sure.
But will he be able to take my weird esoteric module
that was made by someone two years ago and fix that?
He already gets, Chase already gets like boxes of modules
handed to him sometimes.
He picks all these and he's like, "But how?"
Right, you know.
It's not this document.
This is weird.
And I think that's the other thing I've been worried about is like,
"Am I looking at like,
'Oh, this is actually the start of the end of this module working?'
Because the company that made this
might be going on a business in a year.
And then two years from now,
it doesn't work.
And I hope maybe someone on mod Wilgler talked about it.
I already felt the impact of that whenever I had a bunch of Plan B modules.
And they went under.
And they were non-functional quickly.
Like that's why they went under because quality control.
But yeah, like there was major conversations going on,
like on mod Wilgler at the time and things like that.
I wasn't the only one that had faulty Plan B modules
and like trying to help each other out.
And come up with like schematics and talk about shit.
And there was a few other manufacturers that were offering help and things like that.
So yeah, I think to your point,
I don't think we're far off from that at all.
Like even WMD said like,
"We'll cross that bridge when we get there,
when it comes to like long time support."
But like clearly, like if there's shops closed,
there's shops closed.
They're not sticking around to just help people,
you know, for the next couple of years with whatever random issues they come across
with a module or a pedal.
Like you're going to be screwed.
It's basically the bottom line.
And yeah, the more manufacturers in the module
are seeing that close up shop and the more rare components get,
I think support is going to be non-existent pretty much.
Right.
I think it could open up some avenues for like maybe general repair businesses.
Like a Euro-ac repair person that comes up that just tries to like-
You break-eye-fix shops from us.
Yeah, I can totally see it, especially like within countries
and people that like their job is just to build up knowledge on how to fix different types of
modules, collect, wipe-pay, like all the manuals and shit.
Honestly, I think like that is a license to print money in five years.
Yep.
I honestly think like, especially because like-
OLEDs failing.
Sorry.
Yeah, no, but like, like at some point,
like right now if a module that I have fails, I just get rid of it.
At some point, I'm probably not going to-
Like that- the market is not going to encourage me to just get rid of things
and get another one.
Because you get another one, won't be an option.
Sure.
My motivation to repair this thing that I have will be really high.
And if there is a person out there that- even if it's one person and it takes them two months
because they're backed up with orders and requests for repair,
I will send them this module to get this fixed.
Yeah.
So again, anyone out there who wants to start accumulating this knowledge database and like
basically prepare for a future in electronic repair,
honestly, I think it's a great business opportunity.
Because I think like repairing modules is going to be a thing that's-
we haven't really seen in the past.
Yeah.
Because I can see like companies doing too like Scott.
Scott could probably- from industrial musical electronics could probably just repair
shit for a while with the amount of modules that he's pumped out and the issues that might
come up and how proprietary his stuff is, especially in digital.
Yeah.
Like it seems like reasonable business, but yeah, like general repair,
electronics for replace OLEDs.
Yeah.
Fixed surface mount shit that's really hard to like do stuff, help troubleshooting.
Right.
I don't even think most things that get sent in for repair get repaired these days.
Like most people don't talk to the manufacturer, they talk to whatever shop they-
Order chrome.
That's a good point.
And they send it to the shop and the shop just gives them a new one
because it's not worth the time of the manufacturer trying to fix this shit.
They just replace it, but like if things are getting scarce,
not even able to swap it out anymore.
No, no, maybe that's what we should be doing.
Yeah.
We're going to take all of that Patreon money.
So our collecting these documents with the idea that we're going to be
the post-apocalyptic Mad Max, your rec repair.
Modular dystopia.
Yes.
We're going to be living in starting 2020.
Which we kind of just painted for the last 10 minutes now.
Yeah.
But yeah, not trying to be all doom and gloom, but like one again,
one a giant like WMD is closing up shop.
Like you got to read the writing on the wall here.
Absolutely.
Like it's-
I don't think it's hit most people right now.
Yeah.
So far.
Like what that means, you know, like all around.
Because there's still new stuff coming out, you can still buy it eventually.
It's still like things are still humming along.
Yeah.
To a degree.
Modular dystopia.
That's-
I think that's the phase we're entering at this point.
Is that the subtitle for this episode?
Absolutely.
We haven't had a
replacement.
Yeah.
You know, like if there's something out there, no time like the present.
I kind of like went a little overboard recently and like rained it in, but I like-
I am right now.
I might be going home and like taking things off a reverb.
Like it's literally that thing.
I was going to say that.
I did a couple of things like that.
Yeah.
Like I'm like-
When we were discussing a few minutes ago about like selling at the cheapest,
I was going to say now might not be the time to do that.
Yeah.
It might be the move right now to like anything that you don't want.
You don't really need to cash them and it maybe sit on it for a little bit.
Yeah.
Because things are about to shift.
You know.
I mean, one of the things that I had that hasn't sold yet is a ZDSB.
I mean, you really want that in a couple years.
Like that might be-
That might not be able to get one again.
Right.
Yeah.
Like I'm extremely guilty of that.
Like some of the stuff that I've been restructuring with my modular right now
is stuff that I've already owned and sold.
Like the muscle compressor,
you know, things like that.
Yeah.
Um, because I do that because it's available.
Right.
And I usually am able to sell it without much of a loss.
Because I do try to buy things on sale or second aid.
You know what I mean?
Right.
So it's like to me, it's just like, okay, I don't need this right now.
Sell it.
Yeah.
If I need it again in the future, I'll buy it back.
And that's what I'm currently doing.
And like now I'm like,
"Eesh, that's no longer going to be the way I can operate."
Yeah.
I need to figure out my rig, get what I can.
If it's available before it gets too expensive, you know, like...
Like I got this Keep It.
Fraptools group module.
There's a Mark 1 of Mark 2 and I just finally found the Mark 2 somewhere.
So I bought it.
Yeah.
Sold it or trying to sell it to like be 50 bucks to get this stupid switch that lets you.
It's not stupid.
It lets you just send the wet signal out or the mix of everything.
So you can do like multi-tracking really easily.
But I was selling it.
It's like only 170 bucks shipped or something like that.
It's not very expensive.
But I was like, what if the other one breaks?
Like should I just keep the other one because it works fine.
It's just got a jumper on the back instead of a switch on the front and the knob is like better size.
And like if that fucks it up, I can't like, I don't know what's wrong with it.
And you can...
I know we talk a lot about DIY and maybe romanticize it in a way that's...
We're all keen on DIY.
I love doing it in our size.
And like, but like what if that ends up being the sort of like way that a lot of stuff is made?
And the new sort of transaction is like, you know, I cobbled together the pieces to this thing.
Yeah.
Here's a kit.
Try to get your components.
Exactly.
And like here's the PCB.
Here's a couple of the SMDs that's on the board already, etc, etc.
But like it is...
I think you're right on the money.
I mean, we've seen the DIY world grow a lot already.
Not I guess because they're preparing for this, but just because like in general prices
have already shaped and things like that.
And it's like, yeah, some people can only afford a modular by going to the DIY route.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
And that's also the purest, hobbyist approach to take to it.
But...
You can get like that macro pod kit was like 150 bucks for like one of the coolest filters I have.
And most of it, like the surface mount, it was done.
So it was like hardware, knobs, like a few components.
And it was so easy.
Like it's becoming more and more of a realistic option as people do these things where it's like,
it's a lot cheaper for me not to do the hardware and manually.
Like you do that.
I'll do the hard part in the electronics.
It's like sweet.
It's probably...
Yeah, like your science is probably going to be the only way that some manufacturers can exist.
Right.
Yeah.
I kind of love it too.
It kind of just shifts the focus and makes it seem a little...
I hate to see the word, but a little more precious and aware.
At least something you don't take for granted as much.
Sure.
Take for granted I think is probably the good way to put it.
It's like...
I think I have.
I have.
Oh, I have too.
This is not like a projected doomsday.
This is...
Oh, shit.
We're actually starting to see those ripples.
Yeah.
I think we were projecting back in January based on what we're seeing.
It's no longer a projection at this point.
It's where things are in motion that are going to forever impact this whole scene.
For lack of a better way.
Yavin the knob con manufacturers list.
They've seen as much smaller.
Right.
It's because WMD did say they will be there this year.
They said they'll be there, have a beer with them.
They're going to hype up their latest and, I guess, last new modules.
So I didn't want to go to knob con because it's in Chicago.
It's not an insignificant trip.
The idea of going and just having one last drink with them.
That's some beautiful teardown, my cheek type of thing.
I have a feeling it won't be just one last drink with them.
I feel like this might be the last hurrah in a few ways.
That's what I was thinking too.
Like it might be the last one of them.
I'm kind of leaning towards going and just being like,
let's all get drunk and cry about the future.
*laughs*
*outro music*